---
layout: post
title:      "Jack of All Trade Master of None"
date:       2020-05-07 20:36:22 -0400
permalink:  jack_of_all_trade_master_of_none
---

<p style="line-height:1.5">
That is me in a nutshell.  There are a variety of things I do well, but if I had to pick one thing, outside of my faith, that says "that's Rob", I've got nothing.  This trait has gotten me by, my entire career.  Easily I gravitate to issues and the problem solver in me emerges.  The challenge with this trait, however, is that it always seems to go unnoticed by my bosses and recognition goes by the wayside. If I am always doing "stuff" and being as terrible as I am at documenting that stuff (not the biggest self-promoter), when the annual performance review time comes around, the question, "So what have you been working on?", is the hardest question in the world to answer.  My mind immediately reverts to "what have I not done?", and then I draw a blank.  Too many of these occurrences have occurred over the years and I am long overdue for a change.  But now, not being as young as I once was, this next transition needed to be controlled and measured and needs to endure into my retirement years. As I began to reevaluate me, as I have done in the past, I stumbled on this thing called Data Science and I was immediately intrigued.  So, for the next little while, I'd like to share with why I decided to become a Data Scientist.<p>
<p style="line-height:1.5">
From all that I have seen, the income for this profession is very desirable, so there's that.  Hopefully data modeling does not get a bad rap from this current pandemic modeling and that remains the case going forward.  It should be safe to assume that in this word of growing data and technological advances, the need for smart analysis will always be necessary.  Flatiron is correct that we will be the leaders in carrying Data Science to bigger, better and greater heights!<p>
<p style="line-height:1.5">
My first introduction to Data Science was in the form of a week-long bootcamp hosted by my company and led by a Data Science PhD from IBM.  It was amazing!  After the first few hours of this course, I fell in love.  Immediately I could see that I could combine my natural analytical skills with my growing programming and developer skills.  At the end of this bootcamp, we were offered a certificate, but I wanted more.  It was very refreshing to learn all of the amazing things that can be done with data and my wheels were, and have been, churning ever since this experience. <p>
<p style="line-height:1.5">
As the wheels continue to churn, something that I have come to appreciate about Data Science is the more I learn, the more I want to learn.  Even in the short time that I have spent in this course, I continuously look forward to each next lesson.  At the end of each lab, it is not uncommon for me to get lost in taking the new things I have learned and applying it to a problem I have had or am currently working on.  The feeling of accomplishment keeps my drive alive and all I want is more and more.<p>
<p style="line-height:1.5">
Speaking of that drive, one of things that motivates me the most is for someone to tell me something is too hard to do or cannot be done  Once I shared with a friend that I was considering a career in Data Science.  Without hesitation that friend said that is a hard field to break into and basically was discouraging the idea.  He did not know that he almost single handedly encouraged me to make this move.  My mind does not operate well with pessimism.  Forever the optimist am I and the worst thing you can tell me when facing a personal challenge, it that I cannot do something.  It will be so great when I can share with that friend my first Data Science opportunity.  It will be a glorious day!<p>
<p style="line-height:1.5">
Finally, this leads me to the reason why now.  In short, I am tired of being sick and tired.  My current job is draining.  It is riddled with so much process, compliance, follow-up and email on top of email on top of email.  Most of that I understand is a normal part of corporate life and will not go away, however, my situation is much different.  As I state in my title for this blog, I am jack of all trades, master of none.  With this trait, I tend to know things that most others do not.  Often, I wonder why this is, and it dawned on me, that most people specialize in one or two things and tune out everything else and are able to focus on their craft or area of responsibility.  In doing so, they can achieve a greater depth of expertise and before long, I see them leave, moving on to greater opportunities.  My wife always says that we aren't spring chickens anymore.  Meaning, we are not getting any younger.  Pursuing this field will help to ground me in my career, finally giving me something to master and can help carry me well into my retirement years and even beyond.  It is unknown what the future holds for me, but I am determined that no matter what it will be great because starting now, <b>I am a great Data Scientist!!</b>

